---
layout: post
title:  "My bread recipes <3"
date:   2025-04-24
categories: jekyll update
---

# Default recipe

## Ingredients
Yudane:
- 50g bread flour
- 50g boiling water

(Make this 30 mins before the dough and let it cool)

Bread:
- 200g bread flour
- 1 1/8 tsp instant yeast
- 2 Tbsp (15g) brown sugar
- 3/4 tsp salt
- 15g butter
- 145g fresh milk or full cream milk (reserve 25g)

Egg Wash:
- 1 egg + a little water mixed well (i try to do mostly the yolk)

## Schedule
- Wet ingredients + sugar in
- Dry ingredients in 
- Add two dimples in the flour, one for the salt and one for yeast
- Put the bread machine on "pizza dough" mode
- While it kneads, add in the yudane and butter bit by bit

1ST PROOFING (45-60 minutes or until double in size --> can also retard dough in fridge)

- Shape!!!!
  - 2 rolls (breadmachine)
  - 6 balls (loaf tin), [shape like this one from King Arthur](https://kingarthurbaking.com/recipes/japanese-milk-bread-rolls-recipe)

FINAL PROOFING (45-90 minutes depending on environ. temp.)

- Poke test!
    - Under-proofed dough: Will spring back quickly
    - Properly proofed dough: Will slowly spring back, filling the indentation partially.
    - Over-proofed dough: Will not spring back at all, indicating that the dough has risen too much and could collapse in the oven. 

EGG WASH AND BAKE!! (use breadmachine settings or bake in oven at 350, time varies)

- Dump the bread out and let cool on a rack overnight before cutting
- DO NOT REFRIDGERATE

Adapted from: [bakewithpaws](https://www.bakewithpaws.com/2018/07/shokupan-japanese-soft-white-bread.html?m=1)


# Additional recipes:
- [Pan de Cristal recipe from King Arthur](https://www.kingarthurbaking.com/recipes/pan-de-cristal-recipe) I really really love this one
- [Wool roll garlic bread adapted from King Arthur](https://kingarthurbaking.com/recipes/filled-wool-roll-bread-recipe) I haven't tried it yet but I bet it's good

# Some background
- I really like King Arthur recipes!
- I started baking during Covid after finding a breadmachine in my basement
- I also started my own sourdough starter, stopped following recipes and it grew so well I had to keep it in the fridge. Sourdough gets better as it gets older in terms of strength. Unfortunately, I found out I didn't love how it tastes and preferred non-sourdough bread. Additionally, I always had to make crackers and random muffins out of discard. I ended up discarding my sourdough starter after about 3 years of growth (very sad).
- Currently, I use my hands as well as the breadmachine, mini oven, and big oven to bake bread. 
- As for tips: My biggest tip is to listen to your bread (and of course use a scale). 
  - Between brands, seasons, and age, your flour's abilty to hydrate may change. - When it comes to dough enrichments, most of those are pretty easy to change. The only consideration is perhaps whether the quanitity of enrichment will inhibit the proofing processs. 
  Overall, breadbaking becomes a very forgiving activity with practice!
